add re-reviews to the MIR process (#17)
canonical/ubuntu-mir: README.md

      - In case of a single context/reasoning, but multiple packages to promote please make a Launchpad bug for each package. One central package may be chosen to maintain the shared context of related packages. Other packages must be tracked by and link to the central package. See the [central Pacemaker MIR](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pcs/+bug/1953341) as an example.
   1. MIR-Team: Review and add a comment to the bug that contains the review

There is a special aspect for re-reviews. Those will not need to
re-check everything (they could, but they do not have to) while other
things only are important on a re-check.
For that there is a section *[Re-Review]* which has entries only needed for
that.

> Furthermore any `TODO:` entry that shall be re-checked ona re-review has

Author: fixed, thanks!

be addressed should go to the *Problem:* sections (and briefly the
summary at the top).

# Re-Reviewing an approved package

The MIR team and thereby in extension Ubuntu continuously evolves the MIR

> ruling. For example, we add rules based on painful lessons learned to avoid

Author: fixed, thanks!

learned to avoid the same from happening again. In that regard the demand for
testing, quality and so on might be best practice now, but have not been
fulfilled by packages that are in main for a long time.

The proposed approach would be to:

> 1. We will add (doing so is a TODO) a query that helps us to spot packages in main for the longest time without having a recent update on their MIR bugs.

Reviewer: Could re-review be avoided by comment bumping an MIR bug?

Re-assessing oldest MIRs first sounds fair, but may not be the most relevant. I don't have a better solution.

1. The MIR team would aim for a constant load of e.g. "1 review per week per MIR member"
   1. Priority would be on new MIRs, whenever we have spare capacity we would pick up old re-reviews
   1. On one hand that means if new requests are assigned in a week that we make no progress on the backlog
   1. But on the other hand this keeps effort of MIR team members somewhat plannable
1. We'd run a trimmed down check which is a subset of our usual check (see below for details)
   1. Anything we find for packages already in main becomes part of the owning teams backlog. The decision how hard we push on them is a case by case discussion depending on too many variables to properly pre-define.

> 1. As on the initial MIR review we might end up recommending a security (re-)review which goes into their queue at low prio

Reviewer: please change "we might end up recommending a security (re-)review" to "we might assign a security (re-)review"

I also recommend removing "which goes into their queue at low prio". Priority of a Security MIR is set by the owning team relative to the owning teams other open security MIRs. We try to work on MIRs across all teams evenly, and having owning team set priority helps us know what is most relevant to them. It is exceedingly likely that an owning team will de-prioritize re-reviews though :)

## Packages without a MIR bug

This is a special case for things that are in main for quite some time.

> Those packages are in main without an launchpad bug based MIR process.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

Some have mailing list posts which can serve as a base, but some have
nothing at all for auditability.

For these cases we'll still do a re-review. But once we have our new result
we can not post it on an existing MIR bug. Instead we will essentially start
creating a MIR bug for this package with this being the initial input.

Then we will reach out to the [owning team](http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/m-r-package-team-mapping.html)
and ask them to look at what we found and also ask them to reply on the bug
with a full new `MIR` template. That shall help to ensure the owning teams

> point of view is documented as they should ask (and answer) themselfe

Author: Fixed, thanks!

RULE:   $ rmadison -c main {all,packages,that,look,like,duplicates}
RULE: If any of them are reported to be in main check in detail if they cover
RULE: indeed the same use case as the package this MIR is about.
RULE: On re-review finding duplication might lead to considerations to drop

> RULE: one of the two. They might not have been unifiably back then, but might

Reviewer 2: `unifiably` perhaps `interchangeable`? `equivalent`?

Author: Completely rewritten, thanks!

TODO-B: Problems: None
```

# Re-Reviewing an approved package

Right now this is **not active**, it is - so far - a documentation of the intent to do so helping all involved parties to better understand what this would mean.

> The MIR team and thereby in extension Ubuntu continuously evolves the MIR ruling, for example we add rules based on painful lessons learned to avoid the same to happen again. In that regard some asks for testing, quality and such might be best practise now, but have not been fulfilled by packages that are in main for a long time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The MIR team and thereby in extension Ubuntu continuously evolves the MIR ruling. For example, we add rules based on painful lessons learned to avoid the same from happening again. In that regard the demand for testing, quality and so on might be best practice now, but have not been fulfilled by packages that are in main for a long time.
```

typo: `practise` -> `practice`
suggestion: slightly different punctuation/wording for better reading.

Author: Integrated, thanks!

The proposed approach would be to:

1. The MIR team would aim for a constant demand of e.g. "1 review per week per MIR member"
   1. On one hand that means if new requests are assigned in a week that we make no progress on the backlog, but OTOH this keeps effort plannable)
2. We'd run a trimmed down check which is a subset of our usual check (see below)
3. As on the initial MIR review we might end up recommending a security (re-)review which goes into their queue at low prio

## Special cases

> Special case - packges in main without an launchpad bug based MIR process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Special case - packages in main without an launchpad bug based MIR process.
```

typo: `packges` -> `packages`

Author: already had that fixed by now, thanks

> Some older cases do not have anything for auditability, for those we'll reach out to the [owning team](http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/m-r-package-team-mapping.html) and ask to file an MIR as they should ask (and answer) themselfe the same questions we do on a modern MIR.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some older cases do not have anything for auditability. For those packages we'll reach out to the [owning team](http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/m-r-package-team-mapping.html) and ask them to file an MIR as they should ask (and answer) themselfe the same questions we do on a modern MIR.
```

suggestion: slightly different punctuation/wording for better reading.

Author: Integrated (slightly different than proposed)

## Progress

We do not expect this to be quick, there are so many old packages in main that do not even have any trace how they got promoted.

> But if we never start it will never be better. So instead of holding back, we need to just start at some point.

Author: ack, done

## Process

> We'd add (doing so is a TODO) a query that helps us to spot packages in main for the longest time without having a recent update on their MIR bugs - out of that pool we'd then assign in each weekly team meeting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We would add (doing so is a TODO) a query that helps us to spot packages in main for the longest time without having a recent update on their MIR bugs. Out of that pool we'd then assign re-reviews of approved packages in each weekly MIR team meeting.
```

suggestion: write out spoken English and explicitly name the implicit subject for better readability

Author: ack, done

```

> TODO: Re-review for Package: TBDSRC

Author: As discussed, we all liked this - it is part of v2 that I'll push soon.

[Summary]
TODO: WRITE - TBD The essence of the review result from the MIR POV
TODO-A: MIR team ACK - no extra work needed
TODO-B: MIR team NACK - this needs to get out of main
TODO-C: MIR team ACK under the constraint to resolve the below listed
TODO-C: required TODOs and as much as possible having a look at the
TODO-C: recommended TODOs.

TODO-A: This does need a security re-review, so I'll assign ubuntu-security
TODO-B: This does not need a security re-review

> Required TODOs:

Author: They are, you quote the summary at the top to help people that only glance at it.
There is a whole [Security] section later which will decide what the decision here will be - that has explicit checks and rules.

I added a RULE: statement to explain.

TODO: - no Errors/warnings during the build
TODO-A: - no incautious use of malloc/sprintf (as far as we can check it)
TODO-B: - no incautious use of malloc/sprintf (the language has no direct MM)

> TODO: - no important open bugs (crashers, etc) in Debian or Ubuntu

Reviewer 2: Reviewing bug history may show neglected packages, or packages that are too costly to maintain, etc. Maybe it needs its own bullet point, though?

Author: We already have marked the checks of regular updates in upstream and in packaging as "to be looked at" for the re-review. But your thought is good. I do not think we need another check for it, but I added a hint right above the check what might be special on a re-review.

TODO-A: Problems:
TODO-A: - TBD
TODO-B: Problems: None

> [Re-Review*]

Reviewer: Should there be a requirement to see if upstream code is still maintained? e.g., that a git repo is not in archive mode

Perhaps this isn't `Re-Review` specific.
